# Global-Preferences-Survey

1. Improving Upon a Method

    A. There are many ways to classify, order and categorize countries, particularly in relation to economics. Geographically, the distribution of countries across the globe in terms of relative wealth and capital follows a discernible pattern. It is borne-out with such ideas as the “global south”, and is quite visibly seen in the transition from western to eastern Europe. The institutions of global management play their part in defining what is, and what is not an advanced or developing economy. The world is sliced-up into sections which are quantitatively justifiable, not only through measures of economic development, but political organization, corruption indexes, human rights indexes, and so forth. For this analysis, we will be focusing on the economic aspects. Economically, we classify countries together in accordance with non-arbitrary measures of economic performance, yet the classifications themselves can sometimes seem arbitrary, as we try to generalize over what are very complex factors contributing to a country’s unique disposition. For example, a High-Income vs a Low-Income country is generally a very discernible difference. However, the lines begin to be blurred when comparing, for example, the country on the low-end of the spectrum in the High-Income bracket, with the country on the high-end of the spectrum in the Middle-Income bracket. It is often these precise lines which are the arbitrary differences, and are drawn from a multitude of mostly qualitative factors, and thus subject to an inherent amount of bias. What this analysis intends to do is to more carefully explore these lines, and perhaps offer new dividing lines, in accordance with the statistical comparison within and between countries’ economic preference measures: Patience, Risktaking, Positive Reciprocity, Negative Reciprocity, Altruism, and Trust. By being somewhat ‘mislabeled’ and thrown into a category not entirely appropriate to misappropriated

2. Use WBData, add columns for Region and Income

3. Show distributions of preferences, in relation to Region and Income

    A. We can see in the visualizations of the collected data that the classifying the data according to their region is somewhat problematic, while classifying according to income is less so. Noticing the two peaks in many of the distributions suggests that there may be data inclusive of two different populations combined within the same ‘grouping’. The problem is that the definitions of the region are themselves subjective as far as deciding which country belongs to which region. Europe and Central Asia and clumped into one region. This is problematic because intuitively we already know that, at least by economic comparison, Germany and Kazakhstan probably do not belong in the same group. However, if using the same standard of comparison, Germany and Serbia probably do not belong in the same group either. This leaves us with the problem of deciding exactly which countries do belong in the same category as Germany. We can attempt to remedy this by making a quantitative comparison of the country-level mean of economic preferences by performing an Analysis of Variance (ANOVA); Fischer’s Test, to be exact. 
    
    B. First we perform ANOVA between the regions “North America” and “Europe and Central Asia”. Our result shows that indeed the means (of Patience) between these two regions are significantly different from each other, and it is probably appropriate to group them separately as so. Given this new knowledge, in combination with our intuition about Europe and Central Asia, we will apply this methodology to a very comprehensive comparison of the group ‘Europe and Central Asia’, utilizing the Fischer's Test as before. 
    
    C. 
